>> Steve Kinney: So we're going to
implement the Thunk pattern in our
Redux application.
So this is to simulate a server,
that's why we called it API.
It's gonna use local storage,
but it's just as asynchronous.
We're not at this point gonna worry
about catching the errors, per se,
if there's a network failure.
Right, ways that you might think about
doing that is to just display some kind
of error message.
And that would be something you'd
probably keep in the state and
then show in the user interface.
But we're gonna assume a happy path,
so we can see the pattern in play.
So right now, it is not wired up,
my goal is to get it so
that we are saving to the server.
I'm gonna start with
the adding a new item,
that way we have stuff in the database.
The only kind of change that I've made so
far is I've cleared out
those default items.
So you don't see the defaults in here
as well, but we'll add it right now.
We'll say Hello, and
you can see that it's added to the page
cuz we haven't implemented anything yet.
But if I refresh the database,
there's still nothing in there, and
if I refresh the page, it is very gone.
Right, so
this is still the old functionality.
I haven't implemented anything yet,
just all I've done so
far is cleared out the fictitious items
that I had in there, previous examples.
So let's actually go ahead and
start taking a look.
Most of the work that we're gonna
have to do is in the items actions,
like those action creators.
First, we are gonna need to
wire up Redux Thunk, though.
So if we go into the store,
we check this out, we can see that,
we're actually gonna pull in the fancy
one we did with the dev tools,
so we can see everything
along those lines.
So give me one second there
>> Steve Kinney: And
I'll add that to the base branch.
I'm gonna check out a live coding branch
so I can push up what we work on together
right now.
>> Steve Kinney: I'll call
it live-coding-redux-thunk, all right.
>> Steve Kinney: Very cool, all right, so
we have this in place.
So here I have an array for
middleware, remember that we're spreading
that out using applyMiddleware.
If we weren't using the dev tool, like
their argument would literally just be
applyMiddleware, and
the arguments of middleware.
So you can pass them in as the first piece
of middleware, the first argument, so
on and so forth.
This spread operator is taking that
array and spreading it across.
It's almost like using apply with
functions, so we'll have that.
We do need to put in redux thunk,
so that's pretty easy.
We're just gonna pull in the thunk library
from redux thunk, that's pretty great.
So we'll say thunk from 'redux-thunk',
and then we put thunk in the middleware.
And I don't think I have to say
thunk anymore, except that time.
And the time that I
accidentally say it again.
But so now we've installed that
middleware, so now we have support for
thunks, very cool.
So really, the only place we
would work with the database.
We're not gonna persist
the filter actions,
we're not gonna persist that ephemeral
state that's part of the UI.
The only state that we're gonna
persist is the model data.
So let's go ahead, and
like most of the work we're going to do,
it's going to be in this items-actions.
Cool, and so let's get addNewItem
going first and foremost.
Cuz we wanna be able to put stuff in the
database to be able to get stuff out of
the database.
We could get all of them
from the database right now.
But there's nothing in the database and
that's not really rewarding.
So we'll start by putting stuff in, and so
we have an object here that's
pretty straightforward.
What we wanna do is, we want to
asynchronously do the operation that sends
it to the server or
puts it into the database.
And then when that resolves, then we'll
fire the action to update the UI.
And again, I think we talked
about this a little bit earlier.
Different UI patterns will
work a little bit differently.
There's always the optimistic pattern.
I think last time we did this,
we worked with the optimistic pattern.
We did the thing, right, and
we talked about doing the thing, and
if it doesn't work, then maybe pulling
it back, right, it all depends.
At Sangrad, we have some APIs
that could take two minutes, but
almost always succeed, so
we optimistically update the UI.
And then if for some reason it doesn't
go right, we can kinda roll it back or
display an error, it all depends.
If you're offline on the Twitter app,
you can heart different tweets and
it's gonna show them as hearted,
I think that is the past tense of that.
And if it doesn't work out,
they'll go back when you get network
connectivity again, so that's a pattern.
We're going to put stuff in and
then show it.
But depending on the UI
you wanna implement,
you might do something slightly different.
Very cool, so for addNewItem,
we're gonna do this in two steps.
We need to add new items, really,
the only one where we do a little
bit of massaging of the data.
Cuz all we have is the value
from that input field, and
we wanna make the item object.
The rest of them are gonna be very much
just like, wrap the current object,
this is the only one that's
got a little more going on.
Which is we'll say const item is
going to be the default of packed.
And this could happen on the server,
we don't really have server logic per se.
But this could happen on
the server as well, and
depends on what your API looks like,
really.
But I don't really have much of an API at
this point, and we'll pass in the value.
Cool, so I have an item, and now what
we wanna do is we're gonna return,
>> Steve Kinney: We actually, yeah,
we return a new function.
We're gonna return a funk,
thunk, not a funk.
We return a thunk, and
it's going to take the dispatch,
and when we do the Api dash, nope.
Api.addNewItem, add is the one if I check
in here.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's just verify,
yep, add, very cool.
So Api.add, and
we'll add that item in there.
When that promise resolves,
this'll be the item plus a unique ID.
So we want the one back from
the quote-unquote server.
And then we'll just dispatch.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's put.
>> Steve Kinney: That
item.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
I do need to import the API.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, I don't need
this unique ID anymore.
>> Steve Kinney: So
what I expect to see happen is, we already
have the user interface wired up, right.
We're just adding this
thunk in the middle here.
We should say, we want to bring cheese,
now we have an error.
>> Steve Kinney: Includes of undefined for
my filter.unpackedItems.
No, all right, let's check it out.
>> Steve Kinney: What's up?
>> off screen: There is no value on it.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's take a look.
>> Steve Kinney: Interested in the states.
So items, we're saying that there are no
items here when we pull it from the state.
Okay, so we're gonna dispatch this item.
Let's go look at my reducer,
I think I might have a branch issue here.
So we go to my item reducer, and
the item reducer when we add a new item
is actually a little bit different.
So we'll say item, and
that'll be action.item.
I could also just structure it off,
but I didn't.
So we'll pull that in,
we just change the API slightly.
All right, let's try that again.
>> Steve Kinney: It did go in
the database, we can see.
We can see the cheese is in there, but
it's just when we came back when we
dispatched the action, it's expecting the
action to have an ID, a value, and a pack.
But really, we nested it under
action.item, which had an ID,
a value, and a pack.
So we changed that a little bit so
that was a slight problem.
So we'll just add,
what else do I wanna pack, wine?
We're gonna pack cheese, we might as well
pack wine, that's not gonna get me through
TSA, but whatever.
>> Steve Kinney: That I'm gonna leave,
right, I've got a prompt type
that's saying, we gave it a string.
It's of type number, we're fine with that.
Cool, very cool, so what I'm gonna do now
is that date.now that I do
is gonna serve as a number.
The prop type was expecting a string,
cuz we were using it before.
We'll handle that in a second,
I'm not worried about it.